Solidity v0.8.24 release announcement (#77)
ethereum/solidity-website: src/posts/2024-01-25-solidity-0.8.24-release-announcement.md

The release binaries for macOS are now also compatible with Apple silicon chips.

## Cancun Network Upgrade

The "Cancun" network upgrade provides new features in the form of opcodes and precompiles, which will need to be explicitly used to have any benefits,
but also introduces changes in the existing EVM behavior that will automatically affect already deployed contracts.
Solidity 0.8.24 adds full Yul-level support for the new opcodes and also Solidity-level builtins for some of them.

The hard fork will include the following [execution layer changes](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/master/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/cancun.md#included-eips):

* [EIP-1153: Transient storage opcodes](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1153)
* [EIP-4788: Beacon block root in the EVM](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4788)
* [EIP-4844: Shard Blob Transactions](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4844)
* [EIP-7516: BLOBBASEFEE opcode](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7516)
* [EIP-5656: MCOPY - Memory copying instruction](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5656)

> * [EIP-6780: SELFDESTRUCT only in same transaction](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [EIP-6780: SELFDESTRUCT only in the same transaction](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780)
```

Reviewer 2: I mean, that's how the EIP is named :|

Reviewer: lol, OK. Still wrong though :D

Transient storage is a long-awaited feature on the EVM level that introduces another data location besides memory, storage, calldata (and return-data and code).

The new data location behaves as a key-value store similar to storage with a key difference: data in transient storage is not permanent, but is scoped to the current transaction only, after which it will be reset to zero.

Consequently, transient storage is as cheap as warm storage access with `TSTORE` and `TLOAD` priced at 100 gas.

To learn more about its use cases and important things to note, read the full blog post about transient storage [here](transient-storage-opcodes-in-solidity-0.8.24).

### Shard Blob Transactions

* Support for BLOBBASEFEE (EIP-7516)

`blobbasefee` support has been added to Solidity as a global `block.blobbasefee`, as well as a Yul builtin (available in inline assembly) `blobbasefee()`. The functionality closely mirrors the pre-existing `basefee`, except that instead of returning the block's base fee, it returns the base fee of the blob in the currently executing block.

For more information, see [EIP-7516](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7516).

* Support for BLOBHASH (from EIP-4844)

> This release adds `blobhash(uint)` support to Solidity as a global function for retrieving versioned hashes of blobs. It also introduces a YUL builtin `blobhash()`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This release adds `blobhash(uint)` support to Solidity as a global function for retrieving versioned hashes of blobs. It also introduces a Yul builtin `blobhash()`.
```

### Support for MCOPY (EIP-5656)

> Solidity v0.8.24 implements the support for providing an efficient EVM instruction for copying memory areas. 

Reviewer 3: Since we have links in the previous sections. Or maybe we should just say: `This release implements...`
```suggestion
Solidity [v0.8.24](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.24) implements the support for providing an efficient EVM instruction for copying memory areas. 
```

Reviewer 2: TBH, I think we're repeating "Solidity 0.8.24" a bit too much :) We should vary the wording a little :)

Implementing a basic memory copying operation on the EVM comes with an overhead. This is alleviated in EIP-5656 using an `MCOPY` instruction and is implemented in the latest release as specified in the EIP.

It is important to note that the support for the opcode for generated code and hence, the actual cost savings will be included only in the next release.

To learn more, check out the specification in [EIP-5656](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5656).

### Support for SELFDESTRUCT changes (EIP-6780)

> Solidity v0.8.24 introduces support for [EIP-6780](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780) that changes the functionality of the `selfdestruct` opcode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Solidity v0.8.24 introduces support for [EIP-6780](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780) that changes the functionality of the ``selfdestruct`` opcode.
```

Reviewer 2: Well, single backtick is the normal markdown convention. ``` `` ``` comes from RST. We only use it in some places (like the changelog) for historical reasons. On the blog, I'd stick to single backticks.

> The new functionality only to sends all Ether in the account to the target, except that the current behaviour is preserved when SELFDESTRUCT is called in the same transaction a contract was created.

Reviewer 3: I guess we should emphasize the new behavior a bit.

```suggestion
The new functionality **only** sends all Ether in the account to the recipient, except that the current behaviour is preserved when ``selfdestruct`` is called in the same transaction a contract was created.
```

> On Cancun the opcode will only perform an Ether transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Cancun the opcode will only perform an Ether transfer.
```

> In Cancun the opcode will only perform an Ether transfer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Cancun, the opcode will only perform an Ether transfer of the entire contract balance.
```

> Applications that only use SELFDESTRUCT to retrieve funds will still work. Applications that only use SELFDESTRUCT in the same transaction as they created a contract will also continue to work without any changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Applications that only use ``selfdestruct`` to retrieve funds will still work as previously. Furthermore, applications that only use ``selfdestruct`` in the same transaction as they created a contract will also continue to work without any changes. The new functionally only impacts calls to ``selfdestruct`` that happens on transactions that are different from the one that created the contract being destroyed.
```

Reviewer 2: I updated that section significantly. Please check the new wording.

For more information, read the [EIP-6780](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780).

### Support for Apple Silicon

> Starting with version 0.8.24, Solidity replaces the earlier macOS binary to a universal binary for macOS which can now also be run on ARM-based macs.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should keep some consistency across the mentions of the Solidity version in the text?

```suggestion
Starting with version `0.8.24`, Solidity replaces the previous macOS binary with a universal binary for macOS, which can now also run on ARM-based Macs.
```

> This update ensures that the Solidity compiler runs natively on Apple Silicon architecture and its users no longer have to compile it from source, while Intel-based mac users continue to use the binary as earlier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This update ensures that the Solidity compiler runs natively on Apple Silicon architecture, eliminating the need for users to compile it from source. Intel-based Mac users can continue using the binary as before.
```

Thus, this new compiler release does not yet make it its default target.
In order to use the new opcodes and builtins, users are required to select this version using the `--evm-version cancun` flag.
Note that code compiled with this flag may not work as desired on any network where the hard fork is not yet implemented.

It is important to note that at the moment the code generator does not automatically make use of the new opcodes to improve the emitted code and the optimizer support is minimal.
Code generation and optimizer improvements will follow in subsequent releases.

## Supported EIPs & Notable Features

### Transient Storage (EIP-1153)

Transient storage is a long-awaited feature on the EVM level that introduces another data location besides memory, storage, calldata (and return-data and code).
The new data location behaves as a key-value store similar to storage with the main difference being that data in transient storage is not permanent, but is scoped to the current transaction only, and is reset to zero when the transaction ends.
Consequently, transient storage is as cheap as warm storage access, with both reads and writes priced at 100 gas.

> To learn more about its use cases and important things to note, read the [full blog post about transient storage](https://blog.soliditylang.org/2024/01/25/transient-storage/).

Reviewer 2: By the way, note that I updated the link here, but if we decide to update the date in both posts, it should be changed from 25th to 26th.

Reviewer: The question is - should we? The release on github is/was on the 25th, so should we keep the same date here regardless of whether we publish today or tomorrow?

Reviewer 2: ok, fair point. I guess not changing the date will also make things easier.

---
title: 'Solidity 0.8.24 Release Announcement'
date: '2024-01-25'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

We are excited to announce the release of the Solidity Compiler [v0.8.24](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.24). This newest version of the compiler includes the support for the EVM version "Cancun" and full support for various EIPs of Cancun such as support for transient storage, `MCOPY`, `BLOBHASH`, changes in the `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode, & more.

## Notable New Features

> ### Introducing transient storage support for inline assembly (EIP-1153)

Reviewer 2: I think this should be organized a bit differently.

First, I'd add a general section about the Cancun update. We should link to [the list of EIPs in the execution spec](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/master/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/cancun.md#included-eips) and have a sentence or two about what Cancun means for the compiler. I.e. that it changes existing EVM behavior in some cases, which will take effect automatically, even for already deployed contracts, and also introduces new features in the form of opcodes and precompiles, which need to be used by the bytecode emitted by the compiler to have any benefits. We are adding full Yul-level support for newly added opcodes (and Solidity-level builtins for some of them) so users can use them explicitly, but we are not yet using them in the generated code and optimizer support is very basic. Improvements will come in subsequent releases and some of them should have very positive effects on gas use.

Then I'd add these sections:
- Transient storage (EIP-1153)
- Shard blob tansactions (EIP-4844)
    - This includes both `blobbasefee` and `blobhash`. `blobbasefee` has a separate EIP (EIP-7516), but is really a part of the same "feature"
- An efficient EVM instruction for copying memory areas (i.e. MCOPY)
- Changes in `selfdestruct` behavior

Each with more detail about specific opcodes.

Reviewer 2: Oh, also one very important thing for the general section: Cancun has not yet been deployed to the mainnet and therefore in this release it's still not the default EVM version. To use the new opcodes, you have to select it with `--evm-version cancun`. Code compiled with this flag may not work properly on mainnet until the hard fork happens.

Solidity [v0.8.24](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.24) supports the opcodes included in the upcoming Cancun hardfork and, in particular, the transient storage opcodes `TSTORE` and `TLOAD` as per [EIP-1153](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1153).

> Transient storage is a long-awaited feature on the EVM level that introduces another data location besides memory, storage, calldata (and return-data and code). The new data location behaves as a key-value store similar to storage with a key difference: data in transient storage is not permanent, but is scoped to the current transaction only, after which it will be reset to zero. Consequently, transient storage is as cheap as warm storage access with `TSTORE` and `TLOAD` priced at 100 gas.

Author: That's a good tip. Thanks! I will note that for the future. :)

> Transient storage is a long-awaited feature on the EVM level that introduces another data location besides memory, storage, calldata (and return-data and code). The new data location behaves as a key-value store similar to storage with a key difference: data in transient storage is not permanent, but is scoped to the current transaction only, after which it will be reset to zero. Consequently, transient storage is as cheap as warm storage access with `TSTORE` and `TLOAD` priced at 100 gas.

Reviewer 2: Can we still do that in this PR though? It's simple and would make commenting easier.

> Transient storage is a long-awaited feature on the EVM level that introduces another data location besides memory, storage, calldata (and return-data and code). The new data location behaves as a key-value store similar to storage with a key difference: data in transient storage is not permanent, but is scoped to the current transaction only, after which it will be reset to zero. Consequently, transient storage is as cheap as warm storage access with `TSTORE` and `TLOAD` priced at 100 gas.

Author: I already did that for the newer changes. So you can review them line by line. I can also quickly add line breaks to other sections in the meantime. :)

> Transient storage is a long-awaited feature on the EVM level that introduces another data location besides memory, storage, calldata (and return-data and code). The new data location behaves as a key-value store similar to storage with a key difference: data in transient storage is not permanent, but is scoped to the current transaction only, after which it will be reset to zero. Consequently, transient storage is as cheap as warm storage access with `TSTORE` and `TLOAD` priced at 100 gas.

Reviewer 2: Looks like there's a small misunderstanding here :) I mean to only add a single line break, so that the sentences are still a part of the same paragraphs. I guess it might not be apparent from the way github formatted the suggestion above, but there are no empty lines there. That would change how it looks.

Anyway, I fixed it and pushed to the PR, so now it's the way it should .

To learn more about its use cases and important things to note, read the full blog post about transient storage [here](transient-storage-opcodes-in-solidity-0.8.24).

### Support for BLOBBASEFEE (EIP-7516)

> `blobbasefee` support has been added to Solidity as a global `block.blobbasefee`, as well as a Yul builtin (available in inline assembly) `blobbasefee()`. The functionality closesly mirrors the pre-existing `basefee`, except that instead of returning the block's base fee, it returns the base fee of the blob in the currently executing block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`blobbasefee` support has been added to Solidity as a global `block.blobbasefee`, as well as a Yul builtin (available in inline assembly) `blobbasefee()`. The functionality closely mirrors the pre-existing `basefee`, except that instead of returning the block's base fee, it returns the base fee of the blob in the currently executing block.
```

For more information, see [EIP-7516](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7516).

### Support for MCOPY (EIP-5656)

Solidity v0.8.24 implements the support for providing an efficient EVM instruction for copying memory areas. 

Implementing a basic memory copying operation on the EVM comes with an overhead. This is alleviated in EIP-5656 using an `MCOPY` instruction and is implemented in the latest release as specified in the EIP.

> To learn more, check out the specification [here](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5656).

Reviewer 2: I'd avoid links with labels like "here" or "this". That's bad for screen readers, and probably other use cases too. The label should really describe what the link points to.
```suggestion
To learn more, check out the specification in [EIP-5656](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5656).
```

### Support for Apple Silicon

> Starting with version 0.8.24, Solidity introduces universal binaries for macOS, offering full support for Apple Silicon. This update ensures that the Solidity compiler runs natively on both Intel and Apple Silicon architectures.

Reviewer 2: This sounds a bit as if we were adding a new binary type. We should clarify that we just replaced the existing macOS binary. The one now included in the release ([`solc-macos`](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/download/v0.8.24/solc-macos)) with a new, universal one. This change is transparent to Intel mac users - for them the binary will still work like the old one - but it can now also be used on ARM-based macs. Apple silicon users no longer have to compile it from source.

Reviewer: Agreed.

Author: Added some more clarification. Hope it reads well.

* Standard JSON Interface: Add experimental support to import EVM assembly in the format used by ``--asm-json``.
* TypeChecker: Comparison of internal function pointers now yields a warning, as it can produce unexpected results with the legacy pipeline enabled.

### Bugfixes

* AST import: Fix bug when importing inline assembly with empty let variable declaration.

## How to install/upgrade?

To upgrade to the latest version of the Solidity Compiler, please follow the [installation instructions](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.24/installing-solidity.html) available in our documentation.

You can download the new version of Solidity here: [v0.8.24](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.24). If you want to build from the source code, do not use the source archives generated automatically by GitHub. Instead use [`solidity_0.8.24.tar.gz`](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/download/v0.8.22/solidity_0.8.24.tar.gz) and take a look at [our documentation on how to build from source](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.24/installing-solidity.html#building-from-source).

> We advise all Solidity developers to always upgrade to the latest version of Solidity in order to take advantage of improvements, optimizations, and most importantly, bug fixes.

Reviewer 2: Should we thank contributors like we usually do?

> And last but not least, we would like to give a big thank you to all the contributors who helped make this release possible!

Author: Added!
